---
layout: post
title:  "Reading Reflection 1"
date:   2022-09-21 18:21:49 -0400
categories: reading reflections
---
The readings from this week, “Introduction to the Digital Humanities” and “The Organization of Humanities Research” discussed the many different definitions of digital humanities and the nature of humanities itself, along with the questions and concerns that emerge with the digitization of humanities research. The first reading identifies that there are multiple definitions of digital humanities, from the general definition on Wikipedia to a more inclusive definition by Anne Burdick. It also discusses how for many humanists, the arrival of the digital age could forever change how they work and gather data. The salient ideas from this reading are that digital humanities describes the intersection of humanities and computing, particularly using the powers and abilities of computing to improve and better facilitate the way that humanists work. The main question that this reading grapples with is the very definition of digital humanities, since it still doesn’t have a working definition by the end, and the implications of digitalization on humanities research.

The second reading, “The Organization of Humanities Research” discussed the controversy surrounding digital humanities, along with criticisms and worries about how it may alter humanities research. For instance, one of the primary criticisms is that digital humanities may gather and manipulate data, but do not analyze or interpret it. Since there is no interpretation, many claim that it is not a humanistic discipline. Another major concern is over the preservation of digital projects, since as the web evolves, many early projects will need to be updated and maintained. In its preservation, there is also the issue of maintaining the original integrity of the material. This reading also brings up the differences between the humanities, social sciences, and physical sciences, pointing out that each is unique in how they organize, manipulate, and represent their evidence. Because of these differences, there lies the concern that using computing in humanities research may alter the traditional ways in which humanities research is conducted. The main question from this reading is whether digital humanities can be effective in facilitating humanities research, and how it could alter the conventional style and techniques of humanities research.

